>> Hi, I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill,
and I want to invite you
to join us today on a journey.
We're going to be going on
an invisible path to success.
Our guide will be the author
of the book Robert Scheinfeld.
So come join us,
"Living in Balance."
I'm Shakti-Hill,
and we will take
a journey on the
invisible path to success.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Just the word success might
enthrall us and invite us.
I was reading the introduction
to the book by Bob Scheinfeld,
and I really liked it.
It just sounded so intriguing.
And the invisible path,
that's the exciting part,
to find out why is it invisible
and what does that mean?
He said the definitions
are new, so we
have Bob to explain this to us.
Welcome.
>> Glad to be here.
>> The invisible
path to success.
I love it.
That's a great title.
But tell me, I don't
know what that means.
>> Well, people
are always saying--
and it's a big
term in computers--
what you see is what you get.
>> OK.
>> It's actually what you don't
see is what you get in life.
I'm a big believer
that there are
what I call unseen forces
that shape our lives.
And my book shows
people how to understand
what those forces are
and how to better manage
them to go about getting
what you really want in life.
>> And there are seven steps
that you take people through
to manage those unseen--
>> Those unseen forces, yeah.
>> OK, well, also you said you
had an audience that you kind
of targeted with this book.
Who do you think is going to
be choosing this book to read,
and why did you want to target
this particular audience?
>> Well, I think there are
more and more people that are
starting to ask what I call
the most important questions
in life.
Who am I?
Why am I here?
What is my life purpose?
What really causes what
happens to me every day?
And if there's
something I really
want, how do I really
go about getting it?
How do I get from here to
where I really want to be?
And they're frustrated by
the traditional answers,
and they're looking
for new answers.
And I wanted to offer
some different answers
based on some experiences
I had with my life
falling apart using the
traditional self-help
techniques to try
and change things,
finding they didn't work,
needing to find something
that worked because my
life was a real mess.
It was falling apart.
And coming up with some
answers that worked for me,
and I found it worked
for other people as well.
>> And what I like about
that is that it's always--
it seems as if it's out
of the need that we come
to the answers.
Because there was a need in
your life to figure out what
you had to do next.
We have a few
graphics that we're
going to bring up that
come from your book.
The first one that I
wanted you to explain,
and you said that
you're going to be
looking at this differently.
And these are the seven steps
to understanding and managing
the unseen forces
shaping your life.
Wow.
[LAUGH] That's what
we're learning here.
And the first one is
about the director.
And you said you're
going to be looking
at the director of your life
maybe differently than most
people would define that.
>> Well, when you go to a movie,
you see a lot of action up
on the screen.
You see actors, and
you see actresses,
and you see special effects.
What you're not aware of is
the director of the movie, who
coached those actors and
actresses, paced the movie,
made decisions about what's
going to happen where
and what order, how are we
going to communicate and explore
this whole idea that
the movie is about.
And the same thing
is true in our lives.
We all come into life wanting
to explore or experience or do
something, just
like somebody who
makes a movie because there's
an idea or a theme or something
they want to explore.
And in the movie, the
director of the movie
manages all the details
from behind the scenes
with a crew to make sure
that that movie gets made.
Same thing.
There is another part
of our consciousness
that I compare to the director
of the movie, who we're here
playing and having the
experience, and this part of us
is behind us managing
all the details for us
to make sure that we get what
I call the total immersion
movie experience
we came here for.
>> OK, so it isn't
separate from us.
It's a part of us,
and it's the director
who is a part of us who
is directing our life.
Is that how you're
explaining this?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> It's another part of us that
takes over the responsibility
for managing.
The way I explain it is you
look at a very famous actor
like Tom Hanks.
Tom Hanks is a real person.
He's got a real life.
He does things.
But when he's onstage,
he temporarily
leaves who he really is behind.
He takes on another persona.
He has this experience.
And when it's over, he goes
back to his regular life.
>> Yes.
>> So there's a part of
us that comes down here,
has this total immersion
movie experience.
And the real us, if you
will, stays behind the scenes
and manages all the
details to make sure
we get the experience we want.
>> OK, so we are the
director of our movie.
>> Yes.
>> OK, I like that.
Now you said--
>> But the conscious
part of us isn't.
>> The conscious part is not.
>> The conscious part
is not running the show.
That's one of the big messages
in the book that's different.
This director part of us is.
>> One of the things that I
have found of people who are
on the spiritual path
and they are aware of it,
they are in search of
that purpose in life.
And as you put it, it's
discovering your true self
and your true life's purpose.
And that is really why
we're here, is it not?
That's a big deal for you
to explain to your reader.
How would you explain this?
How does someone find their
true self and their true life's
purpose?
>> Well, let me
ask you a question.
What is something in life that
you just absolutely love to do?
>> Well, it's what
I'm doing right now.
>> OK, so doing interviews?
>> It is.
Absolutely.
I love it, yes.
>> OK.
What about it is
it that you love?
>> Well, I love to get that
information, and it's exciting,
especially when I'm interviewing
somebody who's sharing
something that they've
found to be profound,
and they can't wait to
share it with other people.
>> And that's exciting to you?
>> Oh, I love it, yeah.
>> OK, excitement to me is what
I call an inner experience.
>> OK.
>> To me, everything
that we do in life,
everything that we love to do,
whether it's horseback riding,
or it's interviewing, or
it's going to a movie,
or it's skating, or it's
singing, or listening to music,
anything you could ask
somebody that they love to do,
what it's really about is
what's going on inside of us.
It's what we're thinking,
it's what we're feeling,
and it's how we're growing.
It's the internal experience.
That's all that matters.
Everything that's out
on the screen of a movie
is all designed to impact
your internal experiences.
Everything you do
in life is designed
to impact your
internal experiences.
So to me, we all come into
life interested in exploring
a particular group
of inner experiences.
And we create this
whole movie script
and have the actors
and the actresses
and have all these things
that happen in our lives
to stimulate those inner
experiences that we're
really interested in.
So there's no
single life purpose.
We all come in here to
explore these different inner
experiences and interests.
And it can be anything.
I mean, it could be something
from being a mother of twins,
to being a doctor, to
being a spy behind enemy
lines in a war, to helping
to share personal growth
information.
Everyone is interested
in something different.
>> OK, but how we find that--
how we know we're in it is when
it's so exciting, it's the
excitement that we feel,
that inner excitement, then
we are kind of in that groove.
Is that what you're saying?
How do we know if
we are doing it?
>> Well, first of all, to
me, you're always doing it.
>> OK.
>> Whether you know of
it consciously or not,
this director part of you is
making sure that you're staying
on track and that everything
is moving the way it's meant
to move, and you're going to
have the movie experience,
the lifetime you came here for.
So you're always on track,
whether you feel it or not.
I know lots of times we don't,
but to me the truth is you are.
But it's all about what's
going on inside of you,
not what's going
on outside of you.
>> So that exhilaration that
we feel standing on the edge
of the Gulf of Mexico and
looking out at the sunset,
then that's just one of those
moments that we have that's one
of the reasons why we're here is
to experience this world, too?
Can it be just that
simple of experience?
>> To me it's just that simple.
Did you see the movie
"City of Angels"?
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> You have this angel who,
at least the way the movie was
portrayed, didn't
have any feelings,
didn't have any
inner experience,
was just kind of
there and observing,
and was so desperate
to have those things,
from tasting fruit to
touching another human being,
all of the inner experiences.
And that's what it's
about down here.
That's why we came.
To explore and to play and to
have these inner experiences,
that's what the
whole game's about.
>> OK.
How to define what success
means to you and achieve it.
You move us through that.
So success is not the same
definition for each person,
then.
>> Success, to me, is having
the total immersion movie
experience you came here for.
Exploring what you
wanted to explore,
experiencing what you
want to experience,
and doing what you wanted
to do, whatever it is.
And that's it.
It's not about getting rich.
It's not about getting famous.
It's not about being
a great parent.
It's not about enlightenment
or becoming a master
and ascending, which to me, a
lot of this spiritual growth,
when you talk about it,
it's about exploring
what you want to explore.
I look at this
planet as if it was
a three-dimensional amusement
park where total immersion
movies are filmed, and you can
play with any inner experience
you want.
>> But the total
immersion, we're in it.
We're right in the
middle of all of this.
OK.
What if people are feeling
they are not successful,
they are not achieving,
their life isn't working,
and by anyone's standard
they're not successful?
They're in the movie, so what
is different about someone who's
feeling like they're
not playing in this game
and they're not feeling
any of the positives?
>> Well, to me, it's not
always about positives.
Again, even if you or I
can't identify with it,
couldn't understand
why anybody would ever
want to explore a
particular reality,
everybody is fascinated
with everything.
If you look at the kind
of movies that are made,
the books that are written,
the stories that rivet us
when we're reading
the newspaper,
we're all fascinated
by everything.
The so-called good and
bad, dark and evil.
We're interested [INAUDIBLE].
Some people are more interested
in really deeply exploring it
at a very deeper
level than others.
But the question
that you asked, I
guess I'd answer
in a couple ways.
One, have you ever been in a
movie that was two hours long,
and at the 40-minute point,
one of the characters
was in really deep stuff?
>> Yeah.
>> But by the end of the movie--
and I'm not just talking about
the old Hollywood
happy ending stuff.
Even today when
it's more realistic,
it was very different an
hour and a half later.
So for some of these people who
feel like they're not a success
and their life isn't going
the way they're wanting,
I would say you're just in
one scene in a movie that's
got a lot more scenes.
It's going to end up somewhere
totally different than where
it is now.
And just because of how you feel
about where you are right now
isn't necessarily
accurate about what
the whole production is about.
It's just that one set
of scenes at one point
in a movie that's
going to run longer.
>> And you want us to accept
where we are and that we are
successful because we're just
being here and experiencing
our life.
We have achieved to a level.
So it's OK--
>> Yes.
>> --whatever we are doing.
Oh.
OK.
>> You're just fine, exactly,
with what's going on.
I came to a lot of
the realizations that
are in the book
because for 31 years,
life came pretty easily to me.
In fact, my father used
to call me Lucky Pierre.
And then all of a sudden, I had
seven years of Murphy's law,
where what could go wrong did.
Everything fell apart.
And I was like,
I'm the same guy.
I'm making decisions
the same way.
Why am I getting this
dramatically different result,
and everything I touch
is getting messed up when
everything I touched in that--
I was really desperate,
and I was not happy,
and I wanted to change things.
But now I look back, and I see
that each one of those scenes
was perfectly orchestrated
to get me to a place
now that I'm really happy with.
>> So this is wisdom and
light you're sharing with us.
If you'll stay tuned,
we'll be right back
with more of those
seven steps that
will take you on this
invisible path to success.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you are just
joining us, we're
talking to Robert
Scheinfeld, and he
has written a book called "The
Invisible Path to Success."
And we've been talking about
some of these definitions
that he's looking at a
little bit differently.
One of the things that
you talk about in this
is that your life is you
make the analogy a little bit
like a jigsaw puzzle.
>> Right.
>> And you need to
put those pieces in.
The pieces are all
there, but you just
haven't placed them correctly.
>> It's not that you haven't
placed them correctly.
It's just that you're given
little bits and pieces
at a time.
And by the time
your life's over,
you've been given
all the pieces.
They've all been put together,
and there's a big picture.
>> OK.
So that's why
sometimes we don't even
know what's coming
about because we don't
have all those pieces yet.
>> Right.
And again, go back to
the analogy of the movie.
Would you enjoy a movie as much
if you knew everything that
was going to happen in advance?
>> No.
Part of enjoying a movie or
anything that you go to do
is the not knowing.
It's the mystery of
it and the surprise.
>> Well, you said you were
going to be looking at this from
a metaphysical perspective a
little bit differently than
a lot of the people who had been
on a spiritual path have done.
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> If you look at traditional
self-help and metaphysics from
my perspective, the
words are different,
but the message is pretty
much always the same.
And the message is you
have unlimited power.
And you can create anything
you consciously want,
which is the important
operator here,
if you just use this technique.
The techniques are
different, but to me, that's
the common message.
And I just found in my
own experience, both
when I went through this
down, and being a trainer,
and working with thousands of
people, that just isn't true.
And what I discovered
is, again, we all
come into life wanting to
explore something specific.
And the filter that determines
what's going to happen to us
and what's not, what we're
going to get, what we're not,
how things are going to flow, is
what we came here to experience
and how we wanted to,
not what we consciously
think we want in any
given moment in time.
So to me, it's the
director part of you
that's really running
the show and making
the decisions on
what's going to happen,
what's not going to happen.
What goals that you set are you
going to get and you're not.
Whether you're going to
get this or not get that.
Whether it's going to happen
today or 400 years from now.
It's the director part of
you making the decisions, not
the conscious self.
>> Well this sounds, then,
like you are really on the side
of destiny, and that jigsaw
puzzle analogy is that
the puzzle is already done.
We just don't see the pieces.
>> I think some people come
in, and their lives are pretty
predestined, and most of
it's been planned in advance.
And then there are
other people that
have an idea that they
want to come in and play
with a specific kind of a theme.
I want to be in the
healing business.
I want to be a doctor, or I
want to be in the military,
or I want to be in politics.
And it isn't so specific.
I'm going to be the president
of United States when I'm 36,
and I'm going to do
this and this and this
and this and this.
It's general.
And they figure, I'm
going to get in there,
and I'm going to make it up as
I go along when I get there.
Same thing with movies.
There are some movies that start
out with a 600-page script,
and the shoot goes, and
everything is filmed
exactly the way the script is.
And there are other things
where they have a script
and they get into the
production, everything changes.
People have new ideas.
Somebody does
something randomly.
They try something.
It doesn't work.
So I believe that
we all come in here
intending to explore something.
The degree to which
it's specifically
planned and destined is unique.
Some people very planned, other
people very open, and everybody
and everywhere in between.
>> Well, one of the things that
you talk about are the unseen
forces or the hidden forces.
And we have a graphic on that.
What are the unseen forces
that are at play here
in this movie of ours?
>> There are actually
four of them.
And they consist of this
director part of you
who's managing all the details
from behind the scenes,
and the tools, if you will,
that this director uses.
And I'll tell you what I think
is the most potent of the four.
The internet is becoming
very powerful in our society.
Everybody knows about it.
Everyone's using it.
There is actually another
network that connects all of us
together at the unconscious
level that's much bigger.
It's much more
powerful, and you don't
need a computer to access it.
So there's this network
that connects every living
thing on the planet together.
And to me, it's
this network that
runs the show of
what's happening
in our lives every day.
And I compare it to placing
classified ads in a newspaper
or sending emails
on the internet.
That all day long, we
are sending messages
into this network
asking for what we want
and offering to give
what we want to give.
And these messages
flash back and forth.
And at the unconscious level,
these directors and crew parts
of us behind the
scenes make deals.
We'll do this for you
if you do this for us.
And then something
happens up here
in what we call our
daily life, but it's all
generated by this
unconscious flow of activity
through this
unconscious network.
>> OK.
All right.
Well, now how does
reincarnation fall into this?
Do we just keep doing this until
we have our favorite movie?
[LAUGH]
>> Well, actually there's a
famous quote that's in the book
that was from Carl Jung, who
said that he had a feeling,
a very strong feeling
through his whole life--
this is Carl Jung-- that
there was some mystery that he
stumbled upon in a past life
that was just so rich that he
needed a bunch of lives to
be able to explore it fully.
So to me reincarnation
is, just like Tom Hanks,
in his lifetime,
may do 40 movies,
where he's doing 40
different things,
there's so many things
to do down here.
And we're fascinated
by all of the options
that we choose to come
back to play around
with some other reality,
either because we're not done
or because there's
something else to do.
Or you can think about a guy
like Mozart, who pops out
and as a kid is writing some
of the best music in the world.
>> I love that, yeah,
the four-year-old.
>> To me, that's a series
of lifetimes where he was
exploring musical composition,
and they culminated in that
life because he was fascinated
with that, for whatever reason.
>> One of the topics that you
cover here is that decision
making process, and we shouldn't
be worrying about the mistakes.
Because there wouldn't be,
then, any mistakes, would there?
>> No.
But let's say--
>> By your philosophy.
>> No, because by and large,
the director of your movie is
so capable of managing details.
But even if something
random happened,
or you were meant to go
left at a fork in the road
and you went right
instead, so the director
changes a couple of
scenes down the line
and gets you back
on track again.
But the thing that's so
important about that is there
was a time in my life when
I was at my most neurotic,
in any time there was a
big decision making point
in my life, I would freeze.
Because I thought,
I have this destiny.
And if I make the
wrong mistake here,
I'm going to trash
the whole thing,
and my life is
going to be ruined.
That's a little bit
of an exaggeration,
but I really would get nervous.
And being able to just
relax into the decisions
and trust that ultimately my
movie's going to get filmed.
I'm going to get to
experience what I want.
The director is
going to make sure
even if I make a mistake, quote
unquote, which I don't think
happens that much, it reduces
an enormous amount of stress
and lets you relax into
what's going on with you
and trusting this
director part of you
instead of being a worried
maniac all the time.
>> OK.
And what I kind
of wonder about is
some people really would
measure their success
by their happiness.
>> Right.
>> And you don't necessarily--
it's also just as good to be
totally bummed out because then
you're experiencing being
emotionally distressed.
Is that--
>> Well, there was a study that
was done earlier in the year,
where they interviewed a whole
bunch of people that went
to horror movies.
And they asked them why they
would go and watch all this.
>> Yes.
>> And a number of them said
there was something about that
feeling of being in massive fear
but safe at the same time that
I found really interesting.
So it comes down to
life is about exploring
your inner experiences
going on inside of you.
And we're interested
in exploring all of it.
And that involves feeling fear.
It involves being depressed.
And it involves being happy.
And it involves all of
the different emotions
that we experience
in a daily life.
None of them are good.
None of them are bad.
They're all part
of the experience.
>> Well, now one of your points
in managing and eliminating
your fears would be, then,
just to accept the fear.
Like I'm very easily
thrilled, so I
don't need to go on the
roller coasters and all
the really extreme rides.
And my husband enjoys those,
so he needs that kind of--
and there are people who want
to experience a level of fear
because that's what they
need for excitement?
>> Or because it moves them
in a particular direction.
To me, nothing
happens in your life
if there isn't
something about it that
is contributing to you exploring
to what you came here to do,
which is something that
fascinated you so much
that you wanted to explore
it at a very deep level.
Now, what the
specifics are, I can't
begin to guess, in my own life
or for other people's lives.
Sometimes when I do
consultations with people
and they talk about things,
you can begin to get clues.
But we're all different.
And there's no rules.
There's no formulas, except
to me, the generality.
You're exploring what
you came here to explore.
It's being managed.
You can't make a mistake.
And there are positive and
negative aspects to fear.
There are kinds of fear.
For example, if you were
in the jungle and all
of a sudden you saw a lion
jump out of the woods,
there would be some
positive aspects
to having fear come up
to make you cautious.
But when fear paralyzes you and
stops you from taking action
or just makes you feel
lousy all the time,
then perhaps it would
be valuable to look
at a way of changing it.
>> Now the response to
your book, you said,
has been very favorable.
You're very pleased with what--
>> Oh, yes.
>> --people are saying.
>> Yeah, because when I first
started on this journey,
I honest to god thought this is
weird Bob's solution to a tough
time, and it isn't going
to interest anybody else.
But I started sharing
it with other people,
and other people
would say, well, you
know that idea about the
network, the director,
I find that valuable.
It's helpful.
And so I started offering
it more organized ways,
and the feedback has
just been tremendous.
So I wrote the book,
and I'm planning
to do a bunch of other
things in the future
to help share these ideas with
people that are interested
in them.
>> Well we are so pleased
that you did write the book.
It's interesting
and fascinating.
Because it is a different way of
looking at our lives, and that
will help some people.
And it's interesting because
each author has their readers.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes, so thank you
for serving them well.
>> My pleasure.
>> Now, if you would like
to be in touch with Robert
Scheinfeld, please stay tuned
and we'll let you know how you
can be in touch with him.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Interesting, with Robert
Scheinfeld and his background
as a motivational speaker and
all the interesting things that
happened to him
brought him to a point
where he felt that he
had a message for others
that could help them along
this invisible path to success.
If it has helped you, then
we have served you well.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
[MUSIC PLAYING]